Let's now consider the important and very
realistic problem of moving a robot end effector
from one pose to another. From side A to side
B and we want to move it smoothly. Well we
can determine the joint angles that correspond
to pose A and we can determine the joint angles
that correspond to pose B, simply by applying
the inverse kinematics that we've already
studied.
Now that we've got these two sets of joint
angles, the initial set of joint angles and
the final set of joint angles, all we need
to do is move smoothly from one set to the
other and we've previously discussed how to do this, how to interpret vector quantities smoothly over time.
Okay, we're back in MATLAB and first of all
I'm going to define model for my Puma 560
robot. And now I'm going to define a couple
of poses and I am going to orientate this
particular pose so that the Z axis is pointing
straight down, as if the robot was working
above a table. And the destination pose is
going to be like this, minus 0.20 and I'm
going to orientate it so that the Z axis is
parallel to the XY plane, rotated around the
X axis by Pi on 2.
Now I can determine the joint angles for the
initial pose ikine6s, I'm going to pass in
the initial pose and that's the joint angles
and for the final pose I will do the same
thing. Now I can compute a trajectory that
goes from the initial set of joint angles
to the final set of joint angles in 50 steps,
put a semi colon on the end so it doesn't
print that, but the result will be a 50 by
6 matrix, we can see here, 50 rows, one row
per time step and each column represents the
joint angle evolving over time. Now I can
plot the robot making that particular motion.
I can animate it by passing in the trajectory
and here we see the robot doing the motion; it's moving from left to right and the tool is rotating.
If I start a new figure I can plot the joint
angles and see how they evolved over time.
And we can see that they vary smoothly as
a function of time over the 50 time steps.
Now we can look at the joint angle trajectories
and we can see that the joint angles vary
smoothly along the trajectories, starting
with the joint angles necessary to achieve
pose A and ending with the set of joint angles
necessary to achieve pose B and this smooth
motion occurs over a period of two seconds.
Given that I have the joint angles at every
point along the trajectory; it's relatively
straight forward to compute the forward kinematics
for each of those intermediate sets of joint
angles. And here I can plot the end effector
Cartesian position, that's it's X, Y and Z
co-ordinate as a function of time and we can
see that those co-ordinates vary smoothly
as a function of time, which is very, very desirable.
However if I plot the path on the XY plane,
we can see that it starts at A and goes to
B but it doesn't move in a straight line in
the XY plane. When I'm computing the kinematics
for every set of intermediate joint angles,
I can also determine the end effector orientation
and here I've plotted the roll, pitch and
yaw angles of the end effector, as it moves
from A to B. We can see that the pitch and
yaw angles are zero at the beginning of the
trajectory and at the end of the trajectory,
but in the middle of the trajectory we can
see that the pitch angle is not equal to zero.
By tackling the problem in this particular
form, we've really only applied two constraints.
We've said what we want to happen at A and
what we want to happen at B, but we haven't
said anything about what happens in between.
And the result of this approach is that the
end effector has not followed a straight line
path in the world and the orientation of the
end effector has deviated from the desired orientation
in the mid points of the trajectory. In the
next section we'll look at a way we can remedy
this.